README.md, before:

voglperf
=============

Benchmarking tool for Linux OpenGL games. Spews frame information every second. Example:

    ##############################################################################
    Voglperf framerates from pid 12106.
    ##############################################################################
    3564.35 fps frames:3567 time:1000.74ms min:0.23ms max:14.72ms
    4144.01 fps frames:4145 time:1000.24ms min:0.23ms max:1.20ms
    4037.20 fps frames:4038 time:1000.20ms min:0.23ms max:1.20ms
    4059.60 fps frames:4060 time:1000.10ms min:0.23ms max:1.09ms

Can also write frame times to a log file which can then be graphed with gnuplot, etc.

    cat /tmp/voglperf.glxspheres64.2014_02_12-16_02_20.csv:
    # Feb 12 16:02:20 - glxspheres64                                                                                                                                                    
    # 3414.30 fps frames:3417 time:1000.79ms min:0.23ms max:15.00ms
    0.42
    0.34
    0.30
    0.30
    0.29
    0.29
    ...

Building
--------

We use cmake and the voglproj binaries are put into the bin directory. A Makefile is included to simplify this a bit and see how cmake is launched.

To build i386:
> make voglperf32

To build amd64:
> make voglperf64

To delete the build32, build64, and bin build files:
> make clean

Building voglperf on SteamOS
--------

 - Click **"Settings"** on top right.
 - Click **"Interface"** on left.
 - Check **"Enable access to the Linux desktop"**.
 - Head back to main menu, click **"Exit"**, **"Return to Desktop"** (or hit ctrl+alt+F8)
 - Click **"Activities"** on top left, then **"Applications"**.
 - Click **"Terminal"** icon.
 - Type **`passwd`** and enter a password.
 - Install build packages:
    ```
    sudo apt-get install steamos-dev
    echo "deb http://ftp.debian.org/debian wheezy main contrib non-free" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install git ca-certificates cmake g++ gcc-multilib g++-multilib 
    sudo apt-get install ncurses-dev mesa-common-dev libedit-dev libtinfo-dev libtinfo-dev:i386
    ```

 - Get the volgperf source:
  * `git clone https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf.git`

 - Build:
  * `cd voglperf`
  * `make`

Run voglperf on SteamOS
--------

 - Run voglperf as "_steam_" user.

  * `sudo -u steam bin/voglperfrun64`

 - You should see something like:
  * `Starting web server...`
  * `Started http://172.16.10.93:8081`

 - Double click **"Return to Steam"** (or hit ctrl+alt+f7)
 - Connect to voglperf url with Chrome or Firefox browser from another computer.
 - Browser should show something like:

```
Connected to ws://172.16.10.93:8081/ws  
  Welcome!
```

```
Gameid: ''  
    WS Connections: 1  
    logfile: Off (Launch option)  
    verbose: Off  
    fpsspew: Off  
    fpsshow: Off (Launch option)  
    dry-run: Off (Launch option)  
    ld-debug: Off (Launch option)  
    xterm: Off (Launch option)  
    debugger-pause: Off (Launch option)
```

 - To launch TF2, do:
  * `game start 440`
  * Click **OK** button on "Allow game launch" dialog.

 - Full AppID game list: <http://steamdb.info/linux/>

 - To capture logfile for 10 seconds, type:

  * `logfile start 10` ; 

 - Should see something like:

  * ` Logfile started: /tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_04_01-06_28_16.csv (10 seconds).`  

  * `Logfile stopped: http://172.16.10.93:8081/logfile/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_04_01-06_28_16.csv`

 - Right click on logfile link and say "Open in New Tab" (or whatever).

Run vogl w/ SSH on SteamOS
--------

 - Run `ip addr` and note IP address of your SteamOS box.
  * `ssh desktop@127.16.10.93`
  * `cd voglperf`
  * `sudo -u steam bin/voglperfrun64`
  * Run various commands:
     * `help`
     * `status`
     * `fpsshow on`
     * `game start 440`
     * etc.

### Notes ###
 - HTML needs to be cleaned up.
 - Occasionally web client will think two clients are connected and duplicated messages. (Needs to be tracked down.)
 - We are currently adding voglperf as a SteamOS package.

Logfiles
--------

Display graph in gnuplot (install gnuplot-x11):

> gnuplot -p -e 'set terminal wxt size 1280,720;set ylabel "milliseconds";set yrange [0:100]; plot "/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_02_13-13_06_20.csv" with lines'

Output graph to blah.png:

> gnuplot -p -e 'set output "blah.png";set terminal pngcairo size 1280,720 enhanced;set ylabel "milliseconds";set yrange [0:100]; plot "/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_02_13-13_06_20.csv" with lines'

Example Screenshot
------------------

![Example screenshot](https://raw.github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/master/screenshot.png)


License and Credits
-------------------
voglperf code is under the [MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) License. The license file [Repository License](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/blob/master/LICENSE) is stored within the repository (and is reproduced here):
```
                       VOGLPERF CODE  LICENSE

  Copyright 2013-2014 RAD Game Tools and Valve Software
  All Rights Reserved.

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
  THE SOFTWARE.
```

`src/eintr_wrapper.h`- Chromium Authors (2012); BSD-style License. [Current License] (https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src.git/+/master/LICENSE)

`src/webby/` - Andreas Fredriksson (2012); BSD-style License [Current License](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/blob/master/src/webby/LICENSE); [Source Location](https://github.com/deplinenoise/webby)

`src/libedit/` - Jess Thrysoee and NetBSD (2014); BSD-style License [Current License](http://www.netbsd.org/about/redistribution.html); [Source Location](http://thrysoee.dk/editline/)

Commit message:

update with commands from help cmd

README.md, after:

voglperf
=============

Benchmarking tool for Linux OpenGL games. Spews frame information every second. Example:

    ##############################################################################
    Voglperf framerates from pid 12106.
    ##############################################################################
    3564.35 fps frames:3567 time:1000.74ms min:0.23ms max:14.72ms
    4144.01 fps frames:4145 time:1000.24ms min:0.23ms max:1.20ms
    4037.20 fps frames:4038 time:1000.20ms min:0.23ms max:1.20ms
    4059.60 fps frames:4060 time:1000.10ms min:0.23ms max:1.09ms

Can also write frame times to a log file which can then be graphed with gnuplot, etc.

    cat /tmp/voglperf.glxspheres64.2014_02_12-16_02_20.csv:
    # Feb 12 16:02:20 - glxspheres64                                                                                                                                                    
    # 3414.30 fps frames:3417 time:1000.79ms min:0.23ms max:15.00ms
    0.42
    0.34
    0.30
    0.30
    0.29
    0.29
    ...

Building
--------

We use cmake and the voglproj binaries are put into the bin directory. A Makefile is included to simplify this a bit and see how cmake is launched.

To build i386:
> make voglperf32

To build amd64:
> make voglperf64

To delete the build32, build64, and bin build files:
> make clean

Building voglperf on SteamOS
--------

 - Click **"Settings"** on top right.
 - Click **"Interface"** on left.
 - Check **"Enable access to the Linux desktop"**.
 - Head back to main menu, click **"Exit"**, **"Return to Desktop"** (or hit ctrl+alt+F8)
 - Click **"Activities"** on top left, then **"Applications"**.
 - Click **"Terminal"** icon.
 - Type **`passwd`** and enter a password.
 - Install build packages:
    ```
    sudo apt-get install steamos-dev
    echo "deb http://ftp.debian.org/debian wheezy main contrib non-free" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install git ca-certificates cmake g++ gcc-multilib g++-multilib 
    sudo apt-get install ncurses-dev mesa-common-dev libedit-dev libtinfo-dev libtinfo-dev:i386
    ```

 - Get the volgperf source:
  * `git clone https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf.git`

 - Build:
  * `cd voglperf`
  * `make`

Run voglperf on SteamOS
--------

 - Run voglperf as "_steam_" user.

  * `sudo -u steam bin/voglperfrun64`

 - You should see something like:
  * `Starting web server...`
  * `Started http://172.16.10.93:8081`

 - Double click **"Return to Steam"** (or hit ctrl+alt+f7)
 - Connect to voglperf url with Chrome or Firefox browser from another computer.
 - Browser should show something like:

```
Connected to ws://172.16.10.93:8081/ws  
  Welcome!
```

```
Gameid: ''  
    WS Connections: 1  
Commands:
  game start [steamid | filename]: Start game.
  game stop: Send SIGTERM signal to game.
  game set (steamid | filename): Set gameid to launch.
  game args: set game arguments.
  logfile start [seconds]: Start capturing frame time data to filename.
  logfile stop: Stop capturing frame time data.
  status: Print status and options.
  quit: Quit voglperfrun.
  logfile [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  verbose [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  fpsprint [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  fpsshow [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  dry-run [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  ld-debug [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  xterm [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
  debugger-pause [on | off]: Frame time logging on.
```

 - To launch TF2, do:
  * `game start 440`
  * Click **OK** button on "Allow game launch" dialog.

 - Full AppID game list: <http://steamdb.info/linux/>

 - To capture logfile for 10 seconds, type:

  * `logfile start 10` ; 

 - Should see something like:

  * ` Logfile started: /tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_04_01-06_28_16.csv (10 seconds).`  

  * `Logfile stopped: http://172.16.10.93:8081/logfile/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_04_01-06_28_16.csv`

 - Right click on logfile link and say "Open in New Tab" (or whatever).

Run vogl w/ SSH on SteamOS
--------

 - Run `ip addr` and note IP address of your SteamOS box.
  * `ssh desktop@127.16.10.93`
  * `cd voglperf`
  * `sudo -u steam bin/voglperfrun64`
  * Run various commands:
     * `help`
     * `status`
     * `fpsshow on`
     * `game start 440`
     * etc.

### Notes ###
 - HTML needs to be cleaned up.
 - Occasionally web client will think two clients are connected and duplicated messages. (Needs to be tracked down.)
 - We are currently adding voglperf as a SteamOS package.

Logfiles
--------

Display graph in gnuplot (install gnuplot-x11):

> gnuplot -p -e 'set terminal wxt size 1280,720;set ylabel "milliseconds";set yrange [0:100]; plot "/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_02_13-13_06_20.csv" with lines'

Output graph to blah.png:

> gnuplot -p -e 'set output "blah.png";set terminal pngcairo size 1280,720 enhanced;set ylabel "milliseconds";set yrange [0:100]; plot "/tmp/voglperf.Team-Fortress-2.2014_02_13-13_06_20.csv" with lines'

Example Screenshot
------------------

![Example screenshot](https://raw.github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/master/screenshot.png)


License and Credits
-------------------
voglperf code is under the [MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) License. The license file [Repository License](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/blob/master/LICENSE) is stored within the repository (and is reproduced here):
```
                       VOGLPERF CODE  LICENSE

  Copyright 2013-2014 RAD Game Tools and Valve Software
  All Rights Reserved.

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
  THE SOFTWARE.
```

`src/eintr_wrapper.h`- Chromium Authors (2012); BSD-style License. [Current License] (https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src.git/+/master/LICENSE)

`src/webby/` - Andreas Fredriksson (2012); BSD-style License [Current License](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/voglperf/blob/master/src/webby/LICENSE); [Source Location](https://github.com/deplinenoise/webby)

`src/libedit/` - Jess Thrysoee and NetBSD (2014); BSD-style License [Current License](http://www.netbsd.org/about/redistribution.html); [Source Location](http://thrysoee.dk/editline/)
